# Stock Classification

### Project Background: 
Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS) is a common global classification standard used by thousands of market participants across all major groups involved in the investment process. Each stock in the S&P 500 belongs to a GICS sector such as Information Technology, Financials, Industrials, Health Care, etc. Moreover, every GICS also has subsectors.

### Project Goal: 
Given the multiple daily time series of a stock (Open, Close, High, Low, Adjusted Price, and Volume), predict the GICS sector of given stock.

### Methods: 
Dataset contains multiple daily time series of  358  stocks obtained from yahoo finance (after filtering from  500  stocks) from the start of  2016  till the end of  2018 , and the GICS sector obtained from wikipedia is chosen to be the label to be predicted. The features were mostly generated by tsfresh library and hurst exponent. Exploratory data analysis is carried out on useful features. Processed data is then used in an XGBoost model to predict GICS sector.

### Results: 
Important features for XGBoost model to predict the GICS sectors were the OC price first location of maximum and longest strike below mean, kurtosis of Adjusted Close price in the Fourier space, the adjusted close price median and mean change, and the variance of the fft of Adjusted Close price normalized.

### How to Use:
Build a docker image from Dockerfile with the command: "docker build -t [image_name] .". Then create a container from the docker image created from the previous step by running the command: "docker run -it --name [container_name] [image_name]". Finally, open jupyter notebook in a browser and bypass token authentication by running the command: "jupyter notebook --NotebookApp.token='' --NotebookApp.password='' --no-browser --allow-root".

To download stocks data, run Fetching_data.ipynb file. To filter the data and check eda, run eda.ipynb file. To train or load a model, run model.ipynb file.


For bugs and questions, contact: saadi.cv4 at gmail.com